okay so
last time we um talked a little bit
about
the different kinds of planes and i just
want to review that
very briefly so here we have the face
centered
cubic structure i've got a whole bunch
of unit cells remember
that this is the unit cell for it right
the smallest unit
for the structure and
if i build up with multiple unit cells i
can build up my crystal
what i wanted to just remind you i go
ahead and show the
face planes and these planes here the
one one ones
cut corners i just wanted to remind you
that
the different kinds of planes that can
be sliced through the material have
different orientations
within the structure you can clearly see
that and
that if i take a look at the planes
themselves
that you can see they have different
packing different symmetry
we've got that square packing here for
the face
and we've got that hexagonal
packing here for the one one one
type planes these again are the billiard
ball
type packing planes
okay so let's go back to our
powerpoint presentation
okay so we're back to our powerpoint
presentation this is just what i showed
you when you take a look at the
slides okay again packing density
differences
and orientations so what we look at
today is how to
uh explain or describe these plates
okay how do i come up with this calling
this one
and calling this a one zero zero
and these are referred to as builder
indices
and we'll go ahead and just jump right
in
so first we're going to go ahead and
look at directions they're a little
easier
so we'd like to define specific
directions within a crystal
and then from there we'll define
specific planes in the crystal
so the directions look a lot like just
defining vectors
that you're used to doing from math
except now everything again is relative
to
the uh the unit cell so here's the steps
so all we got to do is just follow these
steps through
uh one by one and you should be fine so
first thing first we'll define our
coordinate system and in this figure
it's already defined for us
there's our x y and z directions
if we go ahead and pick uh
let's say we're going to go ahead and
take a look at this direction here
what we want to do is grab the
head coordinates for the head fractional
coordinates
so that's one one one
in this case i'm going to go ahead and
subtract off the tail
which in this case is at our origin
already so
step isn't doing much i'm going to get 1
1 1
back again okay if i had fractions i
would clear them
by multiplying through by the
least common denominator and that i
would reduce
to the smallest integers if if in this
case i'm already reduced
i have no fractions then my final step
which is critical and you'll lose a lot
of points if you don't
obey this is to enclose the numbers
in square brackets
okay without commas
so i'm going to write that nice and
big no commas when you're describing the
indices and that's also true for planes
okay parentheses and commas
are for coordinates just like you do in
math that's fine
but when you're describing a direction
you do not use
comma so let's go ahead and take a look
at what happens if we
maybe do get some fractions or we do
have negative signs
so let's go ahead and take a look at one
of these
we'll go ahead and take a look at that c
here
okay so for c again we're going to take
the head in this case that's down here
and so we're going to go two thirds
in the x direction and it's on the x
axis that's zero in the y
zero into z i'm going to subtract off
the tail
which is one third out in the x
it's all the way out in the y all the
way out
into z and so i'm going to get one third
minus one minus one okay
my next step was to clear fractions
so what i'm going to do is
take this and multiply by 3.
so i'm going to get 1 minus 3 minus 3.
and then i'm going to enclose this in
square brackets no commas
and the negative signs go on top of the
numbers
so this is read as a one three bar three
bar direction
right again no commas
negative signs over top of the numbers
and make sure that your
integers that you have are um
the smallest for that direction so for
example if
if i did this and i ended up with a two
six bar eight direction then i would
reduce that to a one
three bar four right just dividing them
all by two
all right so that's a one three bar
three bar direction okay so hopefully
that's
not too bad go ahead
and take a second to do
a and i would pause the video here
go ahead and do a then come back and
we'll take a look
at the answer
okay welcome back let's go ahead and
take a look at the answer for a and see
how you did
so let's see again i'm going to go ahead
and take my
my head of this this is going to be zero
one one take the tail
which is two-thirds zero
one right i'm subtracting that
but i get minus two-thirds one-half
zero
i'll go ahead and multiply through now
by six
and so i'm going to get minus four
three zero and then i'm going to enclose
that
in square brackets put the negative sign
over top
and no commas that's a four bar
three zero direction
all right so let's go ahead hopefully
did that did that well
let's go get some practice all right so
let's go ahead
and take a look at the uh
indices for plane b now we're gonna take
a look at planes these are different
steps here we have to walk through so
for plane b what i want to do is i want
to take
and find the fractional intercepts
with the a b and c axes and it has to
intercept the axes and can't
intercept the axes at a different part
of the unit cell it has to actually
intercept the axes themselves so
i'm going to intercept the a axis here
b axis here and then we'll deal with the
c
in a second so first let's go ahead and
write down the intercept point so one
half for the a
one third for the b instead of writing
it up here for you to see
and this plane is parallel to the b
direction
right so the appropriate thing here when
it's parallel
is to put the intercept as infinity
this is an arbitrary this is the limit
um of the this is the intercept limit as
the plane
becomes parallel so if you want imagine
that plane b
is not quite parallel to the z-axis but
it
has a very very slight tilt right
towards the z-axis
okay so it's tilted just ever so
slightly towards the z axis
then the intercept with the z-axis is
going to be
right some number that's very very large
and as this plane
tilts less and less it becomes more and
more parallel
then that intercept value is going to
keep going up right so in the limit of
it reaching parallel
the intercept is actually infinity
so if you don't like that just take it
as the convention
all right so that's our first step uh
step two take the reciprocals
so this is two three reciprocal of
infinity is zero
if we had fractions we would again clear
them
in case of planes we don't reduce the
result your text says to reduce
and so that's fine if you do but you
don't need to with planes
and then we'll close the set in
parentheses
and key is no commas
this is especially important for planes
because if you put commas in
then you've just given a coordinate all
right
so that's plane b
so what about uh for plane a
so i'm gonna go ahead again um pause the
video if you like
and see what you get here for plane a
and then come back and we'll take a look
at it
all right welcome back let's go ahead
and look at a a
if you tried it has a little bit of a of
a problem that we've gotta
gotta fix here okay so
with a we're going to have to find the
fractional intercepts let's go ahead and
do that
so it intersects the x-axis here
the a-axis at one it intersects the b
or axis here at one now what about the c
axis i needed to intercept the
c axis it's not good enough that it
intersects this point out here
although that's useful information for
us so what i'm going to need to do is
extend the plane
right so this plane is coming up out of
the board
and reaching this corner so from the xy
bottom plane i'm basically coming
out halfway distance i'm going up a full
unit cell so that means if i was to go
the other way
i'm going to go down
all the way to my z axis
and instead of coming up one i'm going
to go down one
so this will hit here at minus one right
so there's my plane
extending down the z axis
until i intercept here at minus one
so that is my intercept
uh reciprocals here that step is uh
obviously not doing anything in this
case
i don't have any uh fractions to clear
so i'm going to close in parentheses no
commas
and the negative sign must go over the
top and this is read as a one
one one bar plane so this is actually
one of those billiard ball packing
planes we've been talking about
in this particular case it's it's sort
of slicing and cutting off this corner
if you want
all right well good job